# Building device naming standard


## Specification for naming syntax


[TOC]





# Purpose and scope

A consistent approach to naming of assets and building control system control points is fundamental to achieve consistent identification and data management of assets and devices through the life of a building, and to enable the future deployment of digital buildings, applications and take advantage of machine learning and artificial intelligence.

The purpose of this document is to indicate the process to be followed for building projects to name and label the assets, and devices that are part of building control systems.

The following definitions apply:



*   **Device Role: **A specific function in a building that is fulfilled by a device. A device role remains fixed for the function even if the hardware is replaced.
*   **Device Instance: **A specific individual piece of hardware. If the hardware is replaced for a particular device role, the device instance changes.
*   **Machine Generated/Readable Device Instance Globally Unique Identifier (Device Instance GUID)**: An alphanumeric sequence which is machine generated, is immutable and guaranteed to be globally unique among all identifiers used for the purpose of identification of devices within the digital building system. This type of information can be generated by the manufacturer, BIM or asset management software and is unique to the _device instance_. If a device is replaced, its _Device Instance GUID_ will change.
*   **Device Role Human Readable Name (device instance name)**: An alphanumeric sequence that is selected by a human operator according to a global standard that guarantees correlation to building assets categories and uniqueness within the building for a _device role_. The device role human readable name will remain unchanged when specific hardware fulfilling the role is changed. This type of information _is in the scope of this document._
*   **Network Hostname**: The hostname is a sequence of characters assigned to a device (a host) on a network. A hostname should uniquely identify a single device role on the network at a given point in time.
*   **Physical Label**: A physical piece of material affixed to a building asset including the printed name of the asset and additional information in the form of QR code, NFC tag or other data encoding technologies.
*   **Metadata**: Information that provides information about other data.


# Asset naming

Each asset will be assigned as a minimum, the following attribute:



*   A Device Role Name

The structure and purpose of this attribute is described in the subsequent sections.

Where a device is represented in control system software then the device shall be named in accordance with this naming standard within the control system software. It is not just the control points within the device that must be named, but also the device itself. E.g. a controller or an inverter device must be named, not just the points connected to the device.

Wherever possible, the naming shall be applied as close to the edge as possible, i.e. within the device itself rather than at a gateway device. E.g. An M-Bus meter may not be able to adopt the naming within the meters software itself due to the simplicity of the M-Bus protocol. This would mean a mapping would be required between the meters’ software identifiers and the naming convention, at a gateway.


## Device role name (asset.name)


### Definition

The device role name is a human-generated identifier that is unique to the building. It combines a standard abbreviation for asset types and a numerical ID that is unique to each specific asset.


### Originator

Generated by the BIM operator, design team, project team or facilities team, depending on project stage.


### Format


```
<X>-<Y>
```


where:

`X `= &lt;type_enumeration> (variable length, between 2 and 6 characters)

`Y `= &lt;building_unique_incremental_identifier> (variable length, integer numbers only)

The type enumeration shall be according to the Building Device Abbreviation Registry.

The format is composed of a 2 to 6 uppercase alphabetical characters long type according to the name abbreviation and a variable length character numeric sequence that is unique to the building.

Only numeric and uppercase alphabetic characters are allowed, according to the regular expression below. The separator character between the type enumeration and incremental identifier is a hyphen (`-`).


### Examples

Name example for a lighting fixture: `LT-15`.

Name example for an air handling unit: `AHU-3`

Name example for a distribution board: `DB-2`


### Validation tests

The validation procedure shall include the following tests:



1. Regular expression matching to validate the name format.
2. Uniqueness of the name across all devices in the building.


#### Regular expression matching


```
[A-Z]{2,6}-[0-9]{1,6}
